Bring about ⅔ a pot water of water to boil with 3 tablespoon salt. This may sound like a lot, but we will be draining out the water and testing it for flavor.

In the meantime, wash rice 3-5 times with cold to lukewarm water until the water runs clear. Add the rice and the frozen lima beans to the boiling water and gently stir. Bring it back to a boil, then remove the lid to keep from overflowing.

When al dente, strain into a colander. Do not overcook! Taste the rice. If salty, rinse with cold water. Shake colander to remove as much water as possible.

Add 3 tablespoon of oil in a pot. Then gently add half of the drained rice and lima beans. Top with the dill, then add the rest of the rice and lima beans.

Dried herbs in a pot on top of rice.
Using the back side of a kitchen utensil, make 6 deep holes in the rice, then put the lid back on. Cook on medium heat, watching it carefully.

Poking holes in rice.
When the lid gets foggy, pour a little oil over the rice - about 2 tablespoons. Then put the lid back on and turn the heat to the lowest possible setting.


Note: If your pot does not have a glass lid, check for condensation on the top of the lid.

Cook 20-30 min from when the oil is poured on top.

If adding saffron, grind the saffron using a mortar and pestle. Then, steep it in 2 tablespoons of hot water while the rice is steaming. When the rice has finished cooking, add the steeped saffron and water to the top of the rice.

Pouring gold liquid on rice.
Fluff the entire rice mixture with a fork to mix in the dill and (optional) saffron.

Fluffing rice with a fork.
Baghali Polo FAQs
What does Baghali mean?
Baghali translates from Farsi to English as fava bean.

What does Polo mean?
Polo is the Farsi word for rice.

What kind of bean do I use for Baghali Polo?
The traditional bean to use is fava bean. However, many people use broad beans or lima beans.

Green rice with lima beans. 
Related Recipes
If you're looking for your favorite Persian recipes, you're in the right place! Here are some of my favorites:


Joojeh Kabob - Persian Chicken Kabob

Kotlet

Persian Quince & Plum Stew - Khoresh e Beh

Persian Steamed Rice - Saffron Optional
Beginner Guide to Persian CookingA 6-part email series from kabobs to sharbat so you can be successful and confident cooking Persian food.
First Name
E-Mail Address
★ Did you make this recipe? Please give it a star rating below!★

I love hearing from you! You can also FOLLOW ME on INSTAGRAM, FACEBOOK, TWITTER, and PINTEREST to see more delicious food and what I’m up to.

Green rice with lima beans.
 Print Recipe
5 from 4 votes
Baghali Polo - Persian Dill Rice
Baghali Polow is a Persian Dill Rice made with fava beans, broad beans, or lima beans. My grandma taught me to make this recipe with frozen lima beans and dried dill. This makes it easy to make all year long, and the dried dill packs a ton more flavor than fresh.
Prep Time
5 mins
Cook Time
40 mins
Total Time
45 mins
Course: Side DishCuisine: PersianDiet: Gluten Free, Kosher, Vegan, Vegetarian Servings: 4 Calories: 315kcal Author: Candice
Ingredients
▢1 ½ cups basmati rice
▢1 cup lima beans frozen, or fava beans or broad beans
▢½ cup dried dill
▢3 tablespoon sea salt
▢5 tablespoon flavorless oil canola, sunflower seed, vegetable, etc.
▢1 pinch saffron optional
▢water
Instructions
Bring about ⅔ a pot water of water to boil. Add 3 tablespoon salt.
In the meantime, wash rice 3 times with cold to lukewarm water until the water runs clear.
Add the rice and lima beans to the boiling water and gently stir. Bring it back to a boil, then remove the lid to keep from overflowing.
When al dente, strain. Do not overcook! If salty, rinse with cold water. Shake colander to remove as much water as possible.
Add 3 tablespoon of oil in a pot. Then gently add half of the drained rice and lima beans. Top with the dill, then add the rest of the rice and lima beans.
Using the back side of a kitchen utensil, make 6 deep holes in the rice, then put the lid back on. Cook on medium heat, watching it carefully.
When the lid gets foggy, pour a little oil over the rice - about 2 tbsp. Then put the lid back on and turn the heat to the lowest possible setting.
Cook 20-30 min from when the oil is poured on top.
If adding saffron, grind the saffron using a mortar and pestle. Then, steep it in 2 tablespoons of hot water while the rice is steaming. When the rice has finished cooking, add the steeped saffron and water to the top of the rice.
Fluff the entire rice mixture with a fork to mix in the dill and (optional) saffron.
Video
Notes
You want the rice to still have a little bite. Persian rice is never served mushy.
If your pot does not have a glass lid, check for condensation on the top of the lid.
This recipe is traditionally made with fava beans, but I usually make it with frozen lima beans.
Nutrition
Calories: 315kcal | Carbohydrates: 55g | Protein: 5g | Fat: 7g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 5236mg | Potassium: 80mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 1g | Calcium: 23mg | Iron: 1mg
Did you try this recipe?
Mention @ProportionalPlate or tag #ProportionalPlate on Instagram! I'd love to see what you're making!
« Apple Slab Olive Oil Cake
The Perfect Pumpkin Pie Filling »
39
