How to Make Mushroom Soup:

Prep Ingredients
1. First, measure and set all the ingredients ready for the soup (mise en place).
2. Rinse or wipe dry 200 to 250 grams (about 1 cup) of white button mushrooms or cremini mushrooms. Slice of the lower part of the base stalk of each mushroom. Then chop them in halves or quarters, or slice them thin.
Make Mushroom Soup Base
3. Next, heat a heavy saucepan or pan over low to medium-low heat. Melt 2 tablespoons of butter (salted or unsalted) in t4. When the butter has almost melted add bay leaf or tej patta (Indian bay leaf). Keep the heat low and be careful to not burn the butter.
5. Sauté until the bay leaf becomes fragrant, only for about 2 to 3 seconds.

sautéing bay leaf in butter
6. Add ⅓ cup finely chopped onions (about 1 small to medium-sized onion) and ½ teaspoon minced or finely chopped garlic (2 to 3 small to medium garlic cloves).

chopped onion, garlic, and bay leaf in pot.
7. Mix and stir.
8. Sauté until the onions soften and become translucent.
Cook Mushrooms
9. Add the sliced or chopped mushrooms to the pot.
10. Mix again. You will see the mushrooms releasing water after a few minutes.
11. Continue to sauté as the mushrooms brown.
12. Continue to sauté until all the water dries up in the pan. Then add 1 tablespoon of whole wheat flour or all-purpose flour.
13. Sauté for 3 to 4 minutes on a low heat as you continuously stir. You shouldn’t be able to smell the raw flour after a minute or two.
14. Then add freshly crushed black pepper or ground pepper to taste. Mix well.
Make Cream of Mushroom Soup
15. Now add 1 cup of water or vegetable stock, or mushroom stock.
16. Stir and mix well.
17. Add 1 cup whole (full fat) milk.

TIP: The milk should be at room temperature when you add it.
18. Mix very well.
19. Season with salt to taste and mix again. If using vegetable or mushroom stock instead of water, you likely will only need a small amount of extra salt, if any at all.
20. Simmer the cream of mushroom soup over medium-low heat. Stir often; it will start to bubble up like in the picture below.
21. The soup will also begin to thicken. Continue to simmer the mushroom soup for more 4 to 5 more minutes.

As it cooks the soup will thicken more and more. Stir regularly so that it doesn’t stick to the bottom of the pan.
22. Then add 6 tablespoons light cream or cooking cream or low fat cream (about 25% to 30% fat) or 3 tablespoons heavy cream or whipping cream. You can also add 7 to 8 tablespoons of half and half.
23. Stir and mix well.
24. Add 1 tablespoon of chopped parsley or coriander leaves (cilantro) or any fresh herbs of your choice.
25. Simmer the cream of mushroom soup for 1 to 2 minutes, stirring often.
26. Lastly, sprinkle 1 to 2 pinches of ground nutmeg powder or grated nutmeg and stir. Nutmeg gives a nice pleasant aroma but can be skipped if you do not have it.
27. Switch off the heat and pour the mushroom soup in individual serving bowls. Serve the cream of mushroom soup steaming hot garnished with more freshly chopped parsley or coriander leaves.





